The most expensive mistake that you can
make in AI isn't using the wrong tool.
It's not knowing which layer the problem
is on. Here's what I see constantly
among thousands and thousands of members
in my community. Somebody builds an AI
system, the output is wrong, the
automation breaks, the agent does
something unexpected, and their first
instinct every single time is to change
the tool or rewrite the prompt. switch
from chat GPT to claw. Tweak the
instructions for the fifth time or
Google best AI prompt for X. And
sometimes it helps, but usually it
doesn't and they can't figure out why.
Be honest, it is probably happened to
you as well. You try to build an AI
agent, but you don't understand tokens
or context windows, so the agent forgets
what it's doing, costs you $400 in API
fees an hour, and you give up because AI
is overhyped. It's not overhyped. you
just skipped the physics of the system
because the tool and the prompt are just
the surface. They're what's visible.
They're the thing that you're touching
digitally. But AI systems aren't just
one layer deep. They are in fact eight
layers deep. And if the problem is three
layers down, no amount of surface level
adjusting is going to fix it. Often
times you get bad outputs because the
model has no context to work with.
That's a data layer problem. changing
models is not going to touch it. Or if
your automation never triggers, it's an
infrastructure problem. Better prompts
are never going to help. Or maybe your
agent is going off script. It's because
of missing guard rails and memory. So
switching the no code tool is not going
to solve your problem. You see, every
one of those is a misdiagnosis. And
misdiagnosis in AI does not just waste
you time, but it destroys your
confidence as well. People walk away
thinking AI doesn't work for my business
when what actually happened is they were
treating a transmission problem like an
engine problem. But what I also see in
my community is that the people building
real AI businesses look at things
differently. Not because they know more
tools. I hope you see that it's not the
tools, but it's because they can see the
entire system. They know which layer
they're working in and they know exactly
where to look when something breaks.
It's not because they have a specific
talent or they've taken a course or I
don't know a skill they learn somewhere.
It's a framework. Okay? And if you think
back in your chemistry class, Medilev
didn't make chemists smarter by giving
them more facts. He gave them a table
that showed how everything was
connected. And once that structure
existed, chemistry became easier to
diagnose. A chemist was now able to look
at any reaction and know, not guess,
where the problem was. So that's what I
built for AI. 48 concepts, eight groups,
the periodic table of AI elements. So by
the end of this video, you will not just
know all the AI terms that you need to
know, you will also be able to look at
any AI problem, whether it's in your
business or anyone else's, and
immediately see which layer it's on,
which group of elements is involved, and
what to actually do about it. And I
think what makes this different from
every other AI 101 or AI explained video
that you've seen is that it is built for
entrepreneurs. It's not for developers.
It's not for researchers. Every single
element on this table is here because it
shows up in real AI businesses. If it
doesn't affect how you build, how you
automate, and how you grow, it didn't
make the cut. So, let's get into it. And
I think before we get into the table, I
need to address the belief that is
holding most entrepreneurs back and that
I see so often. And that's the belief
that you need to understand all of this
before you can start doing anything.
That's wrong. And I mean that in the
kindest possible way, but it's wrong in
a very specific way that's worth
unpacking. And that's because it's not
the belief itself that's the problem.
It's what the belief makes you do. Okay?
When you think that you need to
understand everything first, you consume
without direction. You watch tutorials,
you read articles, you follow AI news
and none of it compounds into anything.
Return on investment is still zero
because information without that
structure doesn't build anything. It
doesn't lead anywhere and it cannot
compound. It just accumulates. Okay? You
end up knowing a lot of things that do
not connect to each other and therefore
don't connect to action. That is a
problem of focus and of fear. It's not
so much discipline. So let me put it
another way for you. Okay? You do not
need to understand how an internal
combustion engine works in order to
drive a car. Correct? But you do need to
know what a steering wheel is, what gas
is, what brakes do, because if you have
zero framework, every AI tool is a
blackbox and you are just crossing your
fingers and hoping for the best.
Understanding the map does not mean
memorizing every element. You can just
print it or put it as a wallpaper on
your desktop. Okay? It just means
knowing which group of elements matters
for what you're trying to build and then
start there. Here's a very practical
simple way to understand this. A graphic
designer does not need to deeply
understand agent orchestration. A
soloreneur automating their business
doesn't really need to understand RHF.
But every entrepreneur who wants to
build with AI needs to know what group
they're working in and which elements in
that group to pick up first. That is
what this table gives you. It's not a
textbook. It's a compass. It's a map. It
allows you to stop needing to know
everything. Because once you understand
which group is relevant to what you're
doing, what you're building right now,
you can then go deep on those elements
and move fast without the paralysis of
feeling like you have to master all 48
before you're even allowed to start. So
here's the framework. I call it the
eight groups of AI elements. Okay? Think
of each group the way a chemist thinks
about a column in the real periodic
table of elements. Okay? elements that
share the same fundamental properties
and play similar roles in a system.
Group number one, fundamentals. These
are the atoms of everything. Nothing
works without these. Group number two,
data and knowledge. How you feed
intelligence into a system. Group three,
the intelligence layer. How models get
smarter and more contextual. Group four,
models and providers, the actual AI
engines that you build on. Group five,
infrastructure and connectivity, how
everything talks to everything else.
Group six, agents and automation, where
the real leverage lives. Group seven, no
code builder tools. Those are the
entrepreneurs toolbox. And group eight,
the business layer, where this all
becomes a business. Okay. Now, here is a
very important distinction that I really
don't want you to miss. Most people
think of AI as a single thing, AI, like
it's one product or one tool or one
skill to learn. But once you see this
table, you realize that in fact it's an
ecosystem. And understanding how this
ecosystem is really structured is what
separates the people building real
businesses from the people still
watching tutorials. I mean, you can
think of it this way. If you're a chef,
you need to understand ingredients and
cooking methods and equipment and the
menu. So, this table is your kitchen
blueprint for AI. Okay, let's go through
every single group because we have got a
lot to cover. Okay. And before I walk
you through the groups, I want to point
out something that most people
completely miss. So I want you to pay
attention to this and not skip over it.
Okay? The value in AI business is not
distributed equally across these eight
groups. The groups closest to
infrastructure and automation, which are
groups five, 6, and seven. Those are
where the highest leverage opportunities
for entrepreneurs are hiding right now
because those are the groups that deal
with systems. And systems are those that
compound. A good system works for you
while you're asleep. A tool just does
something once, right? So, most of your
competitors are stuck in group four.
We're going to talk about that. They're
debating chat GPT versus cloud versus
Gemini. Which AI model is smarter? And
that's a valid thing to understand.
Don't get me wrong. But it's not where
you build a business. Okay. The
entrepreneurs who are in fact building
the most scalable AI businesses right
now, as I said, understand groups five,
six, and seven at a level most people
don't. They're connecting systems,
building agents, using no code tools to
automate things that used to take 40
hours a week. And I'm going to flag this
for you when we get to group six because
that is where the game changes. But for
now, put that in a file cabinet. Let's
start from the beginning. So group
number one, your fundamentals. Okay,
these are the cells. All right, you can
think of it as the basic atoms of
everything else. You're going to
encounter this in literally every AI
tool that you ever use. First of all,
token. This is how AI reads and
processes text, not words, tokens.
Roughly one token per 0.75 words. Why do
you need to know this? Because it's
directly what affects your cost, your
speed, and how much information you can
feed an AI at once. And now, when you
read that an LLM has expanded their
token number, you know what that means.
Next, model, the core AI engine, the
brain that everything else runs on top
of. Next, we have prompt, your
instructions to the model. How you
structure a prompt determines probably
80% of the quality of your output. This
is the most underrated skill for
non-technical entrepreneurs working with
AI. Next, context window. How much the
model can see in a single conversation.
You can think of it like a short-term
memory with a hard limit. Okay? Once you
hit it, earlier information starts to
drop off. That's why chat GPT sometimes
feels like it forgets what you tell it.
Okay. Temperature. This is what controls
creativity versus predictability because
AI is non-deterministic. Low temperature
means precise consistent outputs while
high temperature means more creative and
unpredictable. You need to know this
when you're building reliable automated
systems. And last but not least,
parameters. Those are the internal
settings that shape how a model thinks.
More parameters generally means more
capability and more cost as well. All
right. So that's group number one. Six
elements, the foundation of absolutely
everything. Now, group number two, this
is about data and knowledge. So
basically, this is about how you feed
information into an AI system and make
it smarter for your specific use case.
First, we've got training data. That's
the information that the model learned
from during its creation. Understanding
this helps you know where a model is
strong and where it has blind spots.
Next, embedding. how AI converts text
into numbers that capture meaning.
Embeddings are what allows AI to
understand that I need help with my
business finances and I want to manage
my company's money better essentially
means the exact same thing. Next, we've
got vector databases. So, basically,
that's where those embeddings are stored
and searched. If you're building any
kind of AI that searches through
information, custom database, a document
assistant, an AI that knows your product
catalog, you are using a vector
database. Then you also have knowledge
basis. That's a curated store of
information that your AI can draw from.
You can think of it as giving your AI a
filing cabinet that it can search in
real time. We also have rags, retrieval
augmented generation. This is the
combination of a knowledge base and a
model where your AI answers questions
using your information, not just what it
was trained on. This is the backbone of
most custom AI assistants being built
today. We've also got fine-tuning.
Basically, that's training an existing
model on your specific data to change
how it behaves. Okay, more advanced and
more expensive than rags, but incredibly
powerful for specialized consistent
outputs. Now, let's talk about the layer
that sits between the raw model and what
it actually produces. Okay, so group
number three is the intelligence layer.
All right, this is about making AI
smarter, more contextual, and also safer
to deploy in a real business. First,
we've got the system prompt, also
sometimes called instruction. Okay, so
this is the hidden instruction set that
you give a model before any conversation
starts. This is how you give your AI a
persona, a role, rules that it must
follow, and a tone of voice. Every
serious AI product has one. If you're
building any kind of AI assistant, this
is where it gives personality. Next, we
have memory. That is the ability of an
AI to remember things across separate
conversations. Without memory, every
interaction starts from zero. Dory style
with memory. You have something that
starts to feel like an actual real
assistant. One that knows your name,
your preferences, your history.
Multimodal. Okay. AI that works with
images and audio and video, not just
text. You've got GPT4 vision, Claude's
document analysis, AI that can look at a
photo and describe it. I remember when
GPT got this capability. It was pretty
groundbreaking and it's expanding fast
and the business applications are just
getting started. Now, I mentioned this
one earlier and maybe some of you
wondered what that is. RLHF, okay,
that's reinforcement learning from human
feedback. That's the technique behind
why modern AI sounds so natural and
helpful. Models are trained with human
feedback to align their outputs with
what humans actually want. It's why chat
GPT doesn't sound like a search engine.
Then you have guard rails, the safety
boundaries and rules that you build into
an AI system to control what it will and
will not do. If you're deploying AI that
talks to your customers, this is not
optional. This is the difference between
an AI assistant and a simple library.
Okay, now we are ready to move to the
group that most people spend all of
their time on but probably shouldn't.
Group number four is about models and
providers. So this is your engine room.
All right, the actual AI models you
build on. GPT from OpenAI, Claude from
Anthropic, Gemini from Google, Lama from
Beta which is open source meaning you
can run it yourself. Mistrol which is
lean efficient the European alternative
Grock from XAI. But here is what I want
you to take from this group. Do not fall
in love with one model. Each has
different strengths, pricing structures,
context windows and its ideal use cases.
GPT is versatile. Claude is exceptional
at long documents and nuanced reasoning.
Gemini has deep integration with
Google's ecosystem. Llama, as I said,
gives you full control. The smart move
is to understand what each one is good
at and match the model to the job. Okay?
So, you need to stop debating which AI
is the best and just think about which
model is right for this specific task in
my specific business. And if you want to
know my personal opinion about which one
I would pick for which task, make sure
you watch this video or we're going to
link it down below. I have done a full
breakdown of all the most known models
out there. Okay, now let's get into the
groups where the real money is made
starting with how everything connects.
All right, so group number five is about
infrastructure and connectivity. So this
is where AI agents get integrated into
real systems where it stops being just a
chatbot you talk to and it becomes an
actual solution or business tool. First,
you've got API, which is application
programming interface, the bridge
between AI models and everything else.
If you've ever connected two apps, your
CRM to your email platform, your form to
your spreadsheet, you have worked with
an API concept. AI APIs are basically
the same idea, a way to call on an AI
model from inside another system. But we
also have web hooks. That's a way for
one system to automatically notify
another when something happens. For
example, a new customer just signed up.
Trigger this AI workflow when that
happens. That trigger is a web hook.
It's what sets automation in motion. We
also have endpoints. That's the specific
URL address where an API lives. When
you're connecting tools like make or
zapier, you're basically going to
encounter endpoints constantly. It's
just the address that your system sends
requests to. And MCP, that's model
context protocol. This is one of the
newest and probably most important
elements on this entire table. It's an
emerging standard that allows AI models
to connect to external tools and data
sources in a structured consistent way.
Think of it as a universal power plug
that lets AI agents interact with the
world. This is becoming the backbone of
serious AI agents infrastructure and
it's still very early on, but if you've
used clot, I'm sure you've bumped into
MCPs. Then you have function calling.
That's the ability for an AI model to
call external tools or APIs directly
during a conversation. This is what
allows AI to actually do things, not
just say things. Okay? So, when you say
search the web, check the calendar, send
the email, function calling is the
mechanism behind all of that. Last but
not least, SDK, software development
kit, pre-built libraries that make it
much easier to build with AI APIs. So,
if you're using no code tools, the SDK
is working behind the scenes on your
behalf. If you're ever dabbling into
custom builds, you will for sure
interact with SDKs directly. Okay, this
is where it gets real. Group number six
is about agents and automation. So, I
want you to pay close attention here.
All right, agent. That's an AI system
that can perceive its environment, make
decisions, and take action, not just
respond to prompts. This is the leap
from AI tool to a digital or AI
employee. An agent does not wait for you
to tell it what to do next. It figures
out the next step on its own. You also
have orchestration. All right? The
system that manages and coordinates
multiple AI agents or steps in a
workflow. So, think of it this way. If
an agent is a musician, orchestration is
the conductor. It decides who does what
in what order and what happens when
something goes wrong. Then you also have
workflows. That's the sequence of
automated steps that produces a business
outcome. Build workflows, not one-off
prompts. A workflow is where AI stops
being a tool that you use and becomes a
system that works for you. Now, this one
has become very popular recently.
Multi-agent system. Multiple AI agents
working together. Each one being
specialized. One agent researches, one
writes, one edits, one publishes, one
handles the CRM update. This is how you
build AI systems that replace entire job
functions. Not by replacing a person,
but by replacing the entire process.
Then we have human in the loop. The
point in an automated workflow where a
human actually reviews or approves
before the system continues. This is not
a weakness in your system. It is a
design choice that keeps quality high
and the risk low, especially when you're
deploying AI that touches customers or
very sensitive parts of your workflows
and processes. Next one is tool use.
It's the ability of an AI agent to use
external tools like search engines,
calculators, databases, apps, APIs.
Without tool use, an agent is just a
very fast chatbot. With tool use, it's a
worker. It does something. Okay, so
here's the thing about group six. This
is where the entrepreneurs in our
community are building businesses that
run without them. Every automation that
saves 10 hours a week, every agent that
handles client questions at 2 in the
morning, every workflow that turns one
hour of work into 10, it all lives in
this group. And right now, most small
business owners do not even know that
these elements exist, let alone how to
combine them. Okay, that gap is an
opportunity. Okay, now let's move to the
group that makes all of this accessible
to anyone who is not a developer. Group
number seven is about no code builder
tools. Okay, so this is what separates
entrepreneurs from developers in a good
way, I think. So you've got Zapier,
which is the original no code automation
platform. It connects to over 6,000
apps, low learning curve, great entry
point for entrepreneurs who've never
automated anything before. You also have
make which is similar to Zapier is good
for complex multi-step workflows. It's
visual. It's flexible. It's built for
the kind of logic that heavy automations
uh and real AI systems require. Then you
have NA10 open- source automation. It's
more technical than Zapier or Make, but
runs on your own infrastructure if you
choose to and that gives you full
control and no per task pricing. It's a
growing favorite among serious AI
builders, but I don't know, maybe it's
had its own um period of fame, let's
say, and now might not be as famous or
as preferred as it was 12 months ago.
Next, we have Voice Flow. That's a no
code platform specifically for building
AI agents and conversational interfaces.
It's drag and drop. If you want to build
a customerf facing AI assistant without
writing code, you can start there. You
also have Flowwise. It's an open-
source, no code builder for LLM
applications. So, you can build rag
pipelines, custom AI agents, chat bots
with a visual interface. It's pretty
powerful and free to self-host. You also
have Cursor. It's an AI powered code
editor, and it can sound intimidating,
but even if you're not a developer,
Cursor significantly lowers the barrier
to building custom AI solutions because
you can describe what you want and it
writes the code for you. Now, you don't
need to master all six of these, okay?
But you need to know they exist because
the right tool in the right situation is
the difference between a 3-day build and
a three-hour build. All right. Finally,
the group that ties everything back to
why we're actually here. Group number
eight, the business layer. Okay. So,
this is the noble gases of this table,
if you will. They complete the picture
and they're the lens through which every
other group should be viewed. Okay?
You've got use case, which is the
specific business problem that you're
solving with AI. This should always come
before picking tools. Start with the
problem, not the product. Next, you have
ROI, return on investment. The only real
reason to implement any of this. If you
cannot articulate the time saved, the
revenue added, or the cost reduced,
rethink the use case before you build.
Prompt engineering. The craft of
designing prompts that reliably produce
the output you need. Not a developer
skill, an entrepreneur skill. The
highest leveraged thing that a
nontechnical AI builder can learn right
now. Then AI stack, your total
combination of AI tools, models, and
systems working together like a tech
stack but for intelligence. The best AI
entrepreneurs know exactly what their
stack is and why each piece is there.
You also have AI avatars. That's a
digital persona or representative built
on AI. It's growing rapidly in relevance
for content creation, for customer
service, for brand building. The
economics of AI powered avatars are
changing faster than probably most
people realize and you definitely need
to look into them. And AI strategy, the
deliberate sequenced plan for how AI
integrates into your business over time.
This is the difference between random
tool adoption and a genuine competitive
advantage. Without strategy, you have a
collection of tools and with strategy,
you actually have a system. Okay. Now,
let me tell you what this actually means
for your business. Understanding this
table is not an academic exercise. It's
just a positioning exercise. Every group
of this table represents a service that
someone is paying for or a system that
you can build and sell or a capability
that reduces your operating costs while
increasing your output. Think about
group six for example, the agents and
automation group. Entrepreneurs right
now are being paid to build custom AI
agents and workflows for small
businesses. Why? because most business
owners don't know that AG, O R, WF, and
the others exist, let alone how to
combine them into something useful.
Okay? When you understand the full
table, you can see the gaps. You can see
what businesses are missing and you can
also see where value is being left on
the table. And if you look at the
members of our community, the most
successful ones are not the people who
know the most tools. Most successful
ones are the people who understand how
the elements combine into systems. A
token by itself does nothing. A prompt
on its own does one thing. A prompt
connected to a model feeding into an
agent with a vector database and a
workflow, that's a business. That is
what this table is pointing you towards.
Results will always depend obviously on
how you implement this, the niche you're
working in, and what you put in. But
understanding the map is step zero. And
now you have it. So, let's bring this
home. If you implement just one thing
from this video, let it be this one. The
next time you feel overwhelmed by AI,
come back to this table. Find the group
that you're working in, focus there. And
that is the antidote to AI overwhelm.
Okay. Now, here's your next move. If you
want to go beyond understanding this
table and actually start building with
it, you can come join us inside of our
community. Link is both in the
description and in the QR code here. and
you will be able to not only learn
exactly what you need to do, we have a
lot of free challenges, we have
bi-weekly calls and thousands and
thousands of other people on the exact
same path as you are. You came into this
video with 47 browser tabs open and no
idea how any of it fit together.
Hopefully, you are living with a
periodic table. Use it. All right, thank
you so so much for watching this until
the end. Like this video if you did. Be
sure to subscribe if you haven't done
so. Share this with anyone in your
circle of friends or family or
co-workers who you think need to really
understand AI better. And until next
time, I suggest you go ahead and watch
this video over here and I'll see you
soon.